Linked First 3 Chapters Summary
The first chapter, the Introduction, opens with a comparison between a twenty-first century teenage computer hacker named MafiaBoy to the first century Apostle Paul, and a statement that both were masters of the network. From his bedroom, the teen hacker orchestrated a distributed denial of service attack (DDoS) that was able to crash the websites of some of the biggest names in e-commerce back in the year 2000. Nearly 2,000 years before the biggest denial of service attack on the Internet at the time, a reformed persecutor of Christians had a conversion experience and afterward walked nearly 10,000 miles, over twelve years, spreading the message and faith of a man whom he’d never met.
From this reach of an opening, we jump to the book’s first scientific concept – reductionism. The chapter proceeds by saying reductionism tells us that to comprehend nature, we first must decipher its components, assuming that once we understand the parts it will be easy to understand the whole after which he states that we’ve been doing it wrong. Reductionism was indeed the driving force behind much of the twentieth century’s scientific research but it is the wrong approach and has resulted in us taking apart the universe and having no idea how to put it back together. And nature’s way of putting things back together is based on a complex process called self-organization that is too hard for human beings to attempt to mimic. 
In chapter two, the book introduces the reader to the random universe. It explains the story of Leonhard Euler and describes an account in 1736 where he introduced the idea of graphs and unintentionally created a branch of mathematics known as graph theory, which today is the basis for our thinking about networks.
We then learn about Paul Erdos and Alfred Renyi, who together in 1959 introduced the random network theory model. Random network theory says that nodes in a network connect to each other randomly and, according to Barabasi, has dominated scientific thinking about networks since being introduced in 1959.
Chapter three of Linked introduces us to something we have all probably heard of, just not like this: the six degrees of separation. Although it would not be given its catchy title until more than sixty years later, the concept was first introduced in 1929 by Hungarian writer Frigyes Karinthy in his short story “Lancszemek” or, in English, “Chains” , which also made it the first time the concept was ever published. A character in the story bet the other people that he was with that they could name any person on earth and through at most five acquaintances, one of which he knew personally, he could link himself to the chosen one, and does so.
In 1967, Harvard professor Stanley Milgram rediscovered Karinthy’s concept and turned it into a much celebrated and groundbreaking study of our interconnectivity. The actual term “six degrees of separation” was not coined until John Guare‘s 1991 stage play of the same title.

